**Eman Ismail**
Source: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=RAAQs3PwBP0

The exact moment someone subscribes to
your newsletter is the most valuable
window you'll ever get. But chances are,
you're wasting it by making a
potentially fatal mistake. You don't
have the one email sequence that turns
subscribers into ready to buy super fans
on autopilot. And if you do, chances are
you're doing it all wrong. Today, I'm
walking you through the one email
sequence every business needs. An
automated welcome sequence. [music] One
that builds trust, drives engagement,
and warms people up to buy before you
even sell to them. [music] I'm breaking
down the exact emails you need and the
strategy behind them so you can get the
same insane engagement I get from my
business and for my agency six and seven
figure clients. First, we need to get on
the same page about what a welcome
sequence is, what it does, and who it's
for. [music] So, what even is a welcome
sequence? A welcome sequence is a series
of automated emails that goes out to
brand new subscribers. [music] It goes
out immediately upon subscription. So,
as soon as someone signs up for your
freebie or your lead magnet, that's the
sequence that they should start
receiving. It [music] can be anything
between 3 to seven emails long. It's
quite an intense sequence, [music] so it
goes out for about a week to a week and
a half. And so, the first couple of
emails might go out daily. And then each
email after that, there'll [music] be
more space between it. Now, I can
already feel you panicking at the
thought of daily emails. Now, this is
not daily emails going on forever. This
is daily emails for 3 or 4 days. And
while you might be concerned that that
might encourage unsubscribes, that
people will get annoyed, people get
upset, and people will leave your email
[music] list completely, the stats
actually prove something entirely
different. So, the stats tell us that
first of all, when people join your
email list, they immediately expect an
[music] email. They immediately expect
to see you in their inbox. And if they
don't, it's kind of like h. And the
thing about a welcome sequence is this
is when people are most curious about
you and your business. So you really
want to capitalize [music] on that
interest and make sure that you're
sending these first few emails. So not
only will people not be annoyed by
receiving your welcome sequence, they'll
actually be excited [music]
and curious. And the stats prove it,
too. The welcome sequences me and my
team work on regularly get open rates in
the [music] 80s, the 70s, the 60s, easy
click rates in the 60%, [music] 55%.
Really, really high engagement because
people want to hear from you when they
first sign up to your list. And what
does a welcome sequence do? Why is it
even important? So, the first thing to
know is that welcome sequence is not
about money. This is not about making
money. It's about building that
connection between you and your
subscribers. It's about creating that
relationship, that no- like and trust
factor. This is a nurture sequence. The
entire point of it is to nurture your
audience so that they can get to know
you, your business, your brand better,
and so that they can start to feel like
you might be someone that they want to
buy from. Because [music] every buying
decision is actually an emotional
decision. When we buy from people and
brands, it's not usually a rational
decision. It's primarily based on
emotion. So that is what the welcome
sequence exists to do. It exists to
create that connection between you and
make [music] your business, your brand,
someone they know, like, and trust. Your
welcome sequence isn't a nice to have.
It can literally be the difference
between a list that simply grows and a
list that actually converts. So for the
businesses that don't have one, what
makes not having one such a dangerous
mistake is that it feels so harmless cuz
your list is growing. [music] You see
people opening your emails. And so on
the surface, everything looks great. But
behind the scenes, your subscribers are
drifting. They have no idea what you
stand for, what makes you special, what
makes you interesting, why they should
buy from you versus your competitor.
[music]
And you'll only realize that when it's
too late. When you're mid- promotion,
mid campaign, mid launch, and sales are
slowly, slowly coming in. And you're
realizing that you're selling to
subscribers who are still acting like a
completely cold audience. Who needs a
welcome sequence? Every business. Every
business needs a welcome sequence. There
is no industry, no niche that does not
need a welcome sequence. You need a
welcome sequence. So, let's get to work
and outline yours. We're going to
outline your welcome sequence together.
But first thing I need you to know is
that not every welcome sequence is the
same because not every business is the
same and every business has a different
audience and different requirements for
that welcome sequence, different points
they want to hit in each email. Now, if
you hired me and my email agency to work
on your welcome sequence, first thing we
do is some customer research. So, we
would go out and find what your
customers and your audience, your
clients, your subscribers actually need
to hear from you in order to feel like
they know, like, and trust you. But I
don't have that information for you. So,
what I'm going to do is give you a
general, but still super valuable
outline that you can use. But, as we're
going through this, I want you to fill
in the missing gaps for yourself
wherever you can. Email one is the lead
magnet delivery email. So, if you've
done this in the traditional way, you
will have promised your new subscriber a
freebie or a resource or something
valuable in exchange for their email
address. So, they've given you their
email address now and now it's time for
you to provide the resource. This email
should only do one thing. Provide the
resource or freebie that you promised
them. Don't try to sell them on
anything. Don't try to introduce them to
anything else. focus all your energy on
getting them to do this one thing, which
is to engage with your freebie. So, the
thing about this email that most people
don't think about is it actually has to
do a little bit more. It has to still
work hard because yes, it's delivering a
freebie, but just because it's a
freebie, that doesn't mean people
actually going to use it. And you do
want people to use the resource that
you're sending them. You want them to
use the freebie because when they use
it, they will see how good you are at
what you do. and that's them getting one
step closer to buying from you or hiring
you or whatever it is that you want them
to do. So, we want them to engage with
your freebie. So, it's not enough to
just say, "Hey, here's the thing. Here's
the freebie. Download it or listen to it
or whatever else." You actually need to
sell them on the idea of engaging with
the freebie. You need to actually remind
them of why they wanted it in the first
place and why it's going to be helpful
to them. So, use the space in this email
to remind them of that. Here's a great
example. Devon is one of our lovely
agency clients and this is one of the
emails that we actually wrote for her.
So, this lead magnet is a video series
and what we want people to do is to
watch video one of the video series, but
we also want to remind them of how the
video series works so they don't get
confused and they understand what's
going on. We also don't want to take
their attention away to anything else.
So, we are focusing solely on the video
series. We have a small section that
says, "By the end of this series, you'll
know dot dot dot." And then we go on to
explain what they'll learn, what will be
valuable for them, what they'll be able
to do by the end of the video series.
So, we're selling the idea of them
engaging with this series. We're working
hard to get them to click because we
know if they do, they'll fall in love
with Devon. They'll demolish the rest of
her video series and they'll likely sign
up to her course later on down the line.
That's it. That's the first email. Email
two is the email where you introduce the
founder or the team or your approach or
the thing that makes you special or
different from your competitors. The
point of this email is to really explore
the why behind what you do. This email
is all about creating connection. You
want the audience to understand your
why, but not just understand it, really
fall in love with it, support it, be
with you in whatever it is that you're
aiming to do with your brand and your
business. You want them to connect with
you on that level. So this email is all
about telling that story or giving that
information that will help them resonate
with you. Human to human. You might want
to share your philosophy or your values,
whatever it is that you feel like your
audience needs to know about you to
really get why you do what you do. And
the reason you're doing this is because
at the end of the day, people buy from
people. And so we want to kind of
humanize your brand and your business.
We want your audience to see the human
behind the business. And like I said, at
the end of the day, buying decisions are
always emotional decisions. They are
rarely ever rational decisions. And so,
we really need to connect with your
audience on an emotional level so that
they can fall in love with you and your
business and what you do because that's
the only way they'll buy from you later
on. For this email, I'm giving you two
of my agency client examples. Okay? So,
the first one is a luxury salon owner.
She got her business to seven figures
and now she's teaching other beauty
salon owners to build their business to
seven figures. So for her email, the
subject line was from my spare room to a
seven figure salon. And the reason is
because we know that her audience based
on the research that we did want to be
where she is. They want to know what she
knows and they want to do whatever she
did to get to where she is now. So, in
this email, we tell the story of where
Jane started off and where she's at now
and everything that happened in between
because again, we're humanizing her. We
also want people to be able to see that
she was where they're at. She was in
their position. And so, being able to
tell this story through her eyes really
helps create the connection that we're
looking for. It makes her more
trustworthy and also likable as well.
So, for that client, her story was
really important. We wanted to share how
she got from where she was to where she
is today. But with another client, with
Heather, for her it wasn't really about
her story of, you know, getting from A
to B. It was really about who she is
today and what she stands for. Because
for Heather, what's really important to
her is that she attracts subscribers and
and an audience who care about the same
things that she does. She's very, very
strong on her values and she has
particular values that she wants her
audience to share. So, in this email,
this was really a an introduction to
Heather and what Heather stands for. And
the whole point of this is that if this
feels good to you, if it makes you like
Heather more, then you know you're in
the right place. You know that Heather
is potentially someone who you're going
to want to work with. But if you don't
like this, if this repels you, well,
then that's a good thing because Heather
actually doesn't want to work with you.
So, see how you can use your emails to
not just attract the right people, but
also to repel the wrong ones. So, in
this email, we we actually list
Heather's values because for her, this
is she stands on business when it comes
to this. She has rejected humongous
clients simply because she didn't
believe in what they believed in. And
this is how she wants to be known. So,
when you're crafting email to, I want
you to think about what is important to
me and my business. What is it that I
want people to know? What is it that I
need them to know about me that can help
us build that connection and that will
also attract the right people but also
repel the wrong ones? Email three is the
authority builder. [music] This email is
about proving that you are the best in
the business and that you are the one
people want to be working with. But the
thing about authority is that it really
only feels authoritative when it's
somebody else who's saying you're the
best in the business. So, you don't want
to be the person who's like, "I'm the
best in the business." You want to be
the person who's like, "Hey, all these
other great people say that I am the
best in the business." Because it's so
much more believable when other people
are saying it about you versus when
you're saying it about yourself. So, I
want you to think about some of the ways
that you can present yourself as being a
trusted expert, a trusted authority in
your field or niche. It might be that
you have been invited onto podcasts or
stages. So, you might want to slip that
in or show photos of you on stage or
videos of you on stage, whatever it is
that you want to kind of include. It
might be specific podcast interviews. It
might be features. Maybe, I don't know,
you're featured in a magazine or a book,
something like that. Maybe you have
testimonials and reviews or case studies
that prove that you are really good at
what you do. This is the email to share
it. And if you're feeling weird about
writing what some people might consider
to be a braggy email. First of all, go
ahead and brag. You deserve it. Second
of all, one way to kind of avoid those
weird feelings is to find what other
people are saying about you rather than
for you to say about yourself. So, let's
have a look at the email that I wrote
about myself, my own authority builder
email that goes out to my email list.
So, I should give you some context in
case you don't know who Joanna Weeb is,
but Joe Weeb is one of the most famous
copywriters in our field. So, anyone
that knows her will know what a big deal
it was for me to be featured in her
book. So, Joe got together a bunch of
six-figure copywriters and made us kind
of share or asked us to share made,
believe me, we all wanted to. We wanted
to share how we got to six figures. So,
me being in this book is my authority
builder. Anyone who knows Joe Weeb will
be impressed by it and will immediately
trust me much more and assume that I
know what I'm talking about because if
Joe Weeb trusts me, they trust me. That
trust is kind of like transferred from
Joe to them. Now, interestingly, if you
are not a copywriter, you don't know who
Joe Weeb is most likely, unless you're
in like the marketing sphere. She's very
well known that there too. But if you're
not a copyriter, you won't care that I
was in this book. And that's why it can
be really helpful to segment your
audience to be able to group your
audience into different categories based
on information that is important or
useful to you. So for me, this email
only goes out to the copyriters. Okay? I
have a separate email that goes out to
the non-copywriters cuz I know who's on
my list. I know who is a copyriter and
who isn't because I use tags and
segments to figure that out. I send a
different email to people who are not
copyriters because again, they're not
going to be impressed by this book, but
they might be impressed that I was on
the Being Freelance podcast. They might
be impressed that I was on the cover of
the Freelancer magazine. They might be
impressed that I was on Claire Pelatro's
podcast, the Get Paid podcast. They
might be impressed that I spoke at
Atomicon. So, I know my audience well
enough to be able to understand what
will impress them about me. And I
segment that information [clears throat]
and give them the appropriate most
valuable information to them. The goal
being that they believe that I'm as good
as other people say I am. Email four is
all about providing value content. Now,
every email that you send should be
valuable in some form or another. But
not every email is going to teach your
audience something they didn't know or
change their perspective on something or
introduce them to a new way of thinking
when it comes to your field or your
industry. That's what I want you to do
in this email. I want it to be pure
value. I want you to show them how good
you are at what you do. I want you to
show them that you know what you're
doing in your industry, your niche, your
field, whatever it is. I want you to
demonstrate how you're changing it. I
want you to demonstrate how you think,
how you strategize, how you work, what
makes you special. It might be a podcast
or a YouTube video or a blog post like
mine is. So, if we go back to my welcome
sequence, the value content for me is
this analysis that I did of Kylie
Cosmetics's welcome sequence. So, I
actually signed up their email list. I
analyzed and assessed their emails and
then I recorded some content around how
I would could make it better. If they
want to hire me, I'm available. Like,
we're available. My agency is here for
you. And here's how this worked. By the
way, this wasn't actually original
content that I created specifically for
this welcome sequence. This was original
content that I created as what was
supposed to be a standalone email. But I
sent that email out and I sent that
content out and oh my gosh, it got so
many replies. I heard so many great
things. I it got so many shares and
created so much conversation and
engagement that I was like there is
absolutely no way this is going to be a
oneanddone email. Absolutely not. This
is an email that's going to live inside
my welcome sequence. So I literally took
that standalone email and I put it into
my welcome sequence so that it would
exist there forever or at least for as
long as I want it to live there. So, the
reason I chose this particular piece of
content was, yes, because everyone loved
it, but also because it was a really
good piece of content that showed how I
think. Cuz one of the things that makes
me and my agency different from other
email agencies or other email
copywriters is that we're exceptionally
good at the strategy side of things. So,
for me, I want my audience to see how I
think. I want you to take a look into my
email strategy brain and know that this
is a unique way of thinking and not
everyone can think like this and a lot
of the time the clients that are coming
to us also don't think like this and
don't want to think like this honestly
they just prefer to hire us to think
like this for them. So this is a real
demonstration of my abilities and my
approach to email. So that's what this
was about. As you can see I painted a
great story around it cuz I love to tell
stories in my emails. If you want to
know more about that, you should watch
part one of this series because I talk
more about newsletter styles and and how
to write your emails. I paint like a
funny story around it and then embed
that content into this email. I still
get replies about this email to this day
and it's literally been in my welcome
sequence for I want to say 3 years,
minimum 3 years, maybe five. This value
content is also content that you can
include in your welcome sequence over
and over again. So, I've just added one
value piece in this welcome sequence,
but actually you can add two, three. If
you have really great pieces of content
that demonstrate what you do, your
approach, how good you are at it, this
is a really good place to kind of embed
that content and keep it alive and keep
it working for you. Email five is about
your offers. It's your chance to present
your offers to your new subscribers so
they know how they can work with you,
how they can buy from you. Now, remember
what I said at the beginning of this
video. The welcome sequence is not about
trying to get sales. Certainly if you
are a non like physical product
business. I do just want to add the
caveat by the way. If you are a product
business owner and you don't have a
welcome sequence. Oh. Oh my gosh. So
some of the welcome sequences we've made
for product business owners at my agency
have made a lot of money. So in the
first year there was a business that we
made a small product business that we
made £60,000 for. Oh, I I mean, what is
that in what is that in USD? Okay,
that's 80,000. That's nearly 81,000 USD.
Okay, nearly 81,000 USD in a year. We
planned that sequence. We strategized
it. We wrote it. We set it up. The
clients didn't change anything about it
for a year. They set it up and truly
forgot about it. It made them $81,000
that first year. So if you're a product
business and you don't have a welcome
sequence, oh please, please set up your
welcome sequence or come to me and my
agency and we will do it for you. Okay?
So for you guys, welcome sequences are
all about making money. But if you don't
sell a physical products, if you sell
information, if you sell digital
courses, if you sell a membership, if
you sell services, the welcome sequence
is not about making sales for you. It's
about warming people up so that when
it's time for them to hear about what it
is that you have to offer, they're ready
to buy. They're in a much better place
psychologically, emotionally to buy from
you. So, what I want you to do is in
this sequence, introduce your offers,
but don't expect people to buy from you.
If they do, bonus, bonus points. We love
it. But just introduce the idea.
Introduce them to your offers. Do you
know that it takes what, like seven,
eight touch points, maybe more now,
before people actually really
internalize your message, hear your
message, and even act on your message.
So, this is the first time they're going
to hear about your offers. If you only
sell one thing, this is a great chance
for you to dive deep and really explain
what it is, and tell your audience what
it is and how it helps them. If you have
multiple offers, multiple services, you
can list them because again, this is
about presenting them with the option,
the information, and not necessarily
expecting them to run away and buy it.
They're probably going to need some more
some more nurturing before we can get to
that point. For our course creator
clients, I might present their, you
know, main signature course so that
people know what it is and they start to
get used to hearing the name. For this
email in my welcome sequence, I decided
to go ahead and share a case study. So,
it was a case study from some clients
that we worked with called M and Alicia.
And I share how we helped them make 170K
in their 7-day launch period by doing
their emails and their sales pages and
all that good stuff. So, for me, I
wanted it to be less about like these
are our services and more about these
are the results that we can help you
get. I already had the case study made
and so it was a perfect opportunity for
me to actually use it and get people to
read it and hire us from it. At the end
of that email, I do include the link to
our contact form because I do want
people to hire us and I do want people
to work with us and I want to give
people the opportunity to work with us
at every single possible opportunity. If
you're not already using Kit as your
email marketing tool, you should
definitely check it out. It's a tool
that I've been using for years. It is by
far my favorite and I have tried quite a
few of them. kit actually allows you to
have up to 10,000 subscribers for free.
And it allows you on that plan to have
one automation. And [music] so that one
automation could actually be this
welcome sequence. I'm on the paid plan
which unlocks a whole bunch of other
amazing features. But the free plan is a
great place to start. So if you want to
check out kit, head over to
emancopycode.com/kit
and you can sign up for your free trial.
So let's just check that you got all
that. Hopefully, you had a notepad and
you were writing things down because we
just went through a lot. To summarize,
email one is lead magnet delivery. Email
two was the intro to you, your story,
your business or brand, your why. Email
three was the authority builder. Email
four was value content. And you can
actually add a couple of value content
emails if you want. You don't just have
to stick to the one. And email five was
how to work with you or how to buy your
offers or what you're selling, your
services, that kind of thing. If you
watch this whole video and you're
thinking, "Oh my gosh, I don't want to
DIY this." you can actually hire me and
my email agency to do it for you. So,
head over to emailcopycco.com/cont
and we will figure that out together.
So, what next? Let's assume you did DIY
it and your welcome sequence is now
done. The next step is to funnel your
subscribers into your regular
newsletter. They shouldn't be receiving
your newsletter before they've received
the welcome sequence. But once they
finished the welcome sequence, they
start getting your regular newsletter.
If you're struggling to know kind of
what to do with your newsletter, you can
actually take my free 10 question quiz
to find out your perfect newsletter
style and that will help you come up
with ideas for your newsletter and make
it easier and faster to write. The link
is in the description below, so go check
that out. This video is part two of my
reset your email strategy series. So, if
you want to check out the other videos,
press subscribe so you can get notified
when the next one comes out and go ahead
and watch the last video that you missed
as well. See you next time.

